add docs for running unittests (#34)
ARMmbed/mbed-os-experimental-ble-services: tests/README.md

# Testing experimental services

> The services provided services are covered by unittests. We use GoogleTest as the testing framework and CTest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The services provided are covered by unittests. We use GoogleTest as the testing framework and CTest
```

as the runner.

When adding a new service please include a unittest suite for your new service in your service PR.
You are free to use any framework as long as it integrates with our CTest runner but to take advantage of
mocks provided by mbed-os you'll have to use [GoogleTest](https://github.com/google/googletest).

# Running

To run unittests simply run:

```
./unittests.sh
```

This will configure and build the tests with Cmake and run the tests.

Unit tests require mbed-os to provide stubs and mocks. A copy of mbed-os will be checked out during the build into
the tests directory (unless it's already there, you may use a symlink if you already have a checkout of mbed-os).

> This will not be deleted after the run.

Reviewer: This _might_ be a source of confusion for people. Perhaps you could add the folder structure:
```
tests/
└── CI/
└── UNITESTS/
└── mbed-os/
.mbedignore
CMakeLists.txt
googletest.in
unittests.sh
```

Author: OK, I expanded that paragraph.

Reviewer: Resolved in 54b5a6f18b17b62799b6973382344e625814ded3

# Adding a new test

> Before or during the development of your service you should add a new unittest to to cover it. This is done by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before or during the development of your service you should add a new unittest to cover it. This is done by
```

    PRIVATE
        # add any stubs, headers or mocks you need here
        # you will most likely want to include:
        # mbed-os-fakes-ble
        gmock_main
)

add_test(NAME "${TEST_NAME}" COMMAND ${TEST_NAME})
```

Inside CMake files for unit tests there are two special variables you can use that are set by the top level
unit test CMakeLists.txt: `MBED_PATH`, `SERVICES_PATH`. These point to mbed-os and the services directory.

## Stubs, mocks and fakes in mbed-os

To make it easier to test your service mbed-os provides some ready made CMake libraries you can add in your
`target_link_libraries` section (see template above). Libraries can be object files that contains stubs, mocks
and fakes but also sets of include paths - this way you can gain access to normal headers from mbed-os.

All the libraries available are in the `CMakeLists.txt` files in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs` and
`mbed-os/UNITTESTS/fakes`.

The most common ones you might need are `mbed-os-fakes-ble` and `mbed-os-fakes-event-queue`.

### mbed-os-fakes-ble

This library provides a fake BLE implementation that uses mocks instead of real BLE components for `Gap`,
`GattServer`, `GattClient`, `SecurityManager`.

> There is no need to initialise the instance, it is ready to go and can get used just like normal BLE instance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no need to initialise a fake BLE instance; it is ready to go and can be used just like a normal BLE instance:
```

```
BLE ble = &BLE::Instance();
```

You can retrieve all the BLE APIs from the instance just like with a normal one:

```
Gap &gap = ble->gap();
GattClient &client = ble->gattClient();
GattServer &server = ble->gattServer();
SecurityManager &sm = ble->securityManager();
```

But these are instead google mocks. This means you can set expectations on them. 

```
EXPECT_CALL(ble::gap_mock(), reset());
```

This will set up an expectations that at some point during the test the Gap::reset method will be called.

The way google test works means that if you set any expectations on your mocks they must be destroyed at
the end of each test. This is done through the fake BLE instance special method:

```
ble::reset_mocks();
```

### mbed-os-fakes-event-queue

> This is a fake event queue that doesn't bring in any dependencies from mbed-os. It's API is simplified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a fake event queue that doesn't bring in any dependencies from mbed-os. Its API is simplified
```

and it only offers limited functionality.

If you choose to use it you must not also include a library that brings in real headers for the event

> queue as they would conflict.

Reviewer: Is this true. Did you not include `events/EventQueue` in your illustrative example?

Author: it is true. that header is a fake header

Reviewer: What's the full path of the fake header in your [cmake_lists](https://github.com/paul-szczepanek-arm/mbed-os/tree/cmake-tests) branch in mbed-os?

Author: I don't understand the question, look inside UNITTESTS/fakes/ that's where the library is, it has it's own header

Reviewer 2: I think this line should be clarified. As a user, I would like to know if I can include the event header in my service with a `events/EventQueue.h` and which API is not available in the fake. 

Also what would be the issue if another library includes `events/EventQueue.h` ? It is not possible to propagate the fake event include path when its builded ? That would be a minor issue if it was the case as we try to avoid real dependency in unit tests.

The API calls supported are for simple calls `call`, `call_in` and the `cancel` method.

The event queue is not run in real time and must be progressed manually. You may use
`dispatch(int milliseconds)` and `dispatch_forever()` to process events in the queue. This way you can

> simulate passage of time within your test. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simulate the passage of time in your test. 
```

# Testing experimental services

The services provided are covered by unittests. We use GoogleTest as the testing framework and CTest
as the runner.

When adding a new service please include a unittest suite for your new service in your service PR.

> You are free to use any framework as long as it integrates with our CTest runner but to take advantage of

Reviewer 2: Great point.

and fakes but also sets of include paths - this way you can gain access to normal headers from mbed-os.

All the libraries available are in the `CMakeLists.txt` files in `mbed-os/UNITTESTS/stubs` and
`mbed-os/UNITTESTS/fakes`.

The most common ones you might need are `mbed-os-fakes-ble` and `mbed-os-fakes-event-queue`.

### mbed-os-fakes-ble

This library provides a fake BLE implementation that uses mocks instead of real BLE components for `Gap`,
`GattServer`, `GattClient`, `SecurityManager`.

There is no need to initialise a fake BLE instance; it is ready to go and can be used just like a normal BLE instance:
```
BLE ble = &BLE::Instance();
```

You can retrieve all the BLE APIs from the instance just like with a normal one:

```
Gap &gap = ble->gap();
GattClient &client = ble->gattClient();
GattServer &server = ble->gattServer();
SecurityManager &sm = ble->securityManager();
```

But these are instead google mocks. This means you can set expectations on them. 

```
EXPECT_CALL(ble::gap_mock(), reset());
```

This will set up an expectations that at some point during the test the Gap::reset method will be called.

> The way google test works means that if you set any expectations on your mocks they must be destroyed at

Reviewer 2: Expectations are destroyed when a Mock is destroyed, in the case of ble a singleton is used which makes things more difficult. I would advise on having `ble::reset_mocks` in the teardown of the fixture rather than at the end of each test.
